# A: Relationships

## How does the relationship of people shape the movie industry?
The production of a movie involves a collaboration between a variety of roles for a relatively long period of time, and they all influence the success of the movie. The quality of the plot and the acting are of course an important factor, but there are details that are often more difficult to discern. When a team of directors, producers, writers, cinematographers, etc. collaborate, the result is more than just one movie. They build a relationship, good or bad, and it will influence their future projects and decisions. By building a network graph of the relationship of the most important people in the movie industry (using the CMU, IMDb, and DBpedia datasets), we can analyze it to get more insights about how these relationships have influenced the industry. Who are the most influential figures? Is there any pattern in the success of a movie and the relationship of people among the production team? Is there any pattern in the emergence of a new star or the disappearance of a popular figure?

## Globalization of movies
Explore the evolution of international film collaborations from their sparse existence at the dawn of the 20th century to the prolific global partnerships we witness today. By analyzing movies that have cross-border production teams or casts, is the democratization of these collaborations truly equitable? For instance, does the main cast predominantly hail from one nationality when a developed country collaborates with an emerging one? Do all nationalities get equal spotlight and access to awards? Are some nationalities stigmatized? Another intriguing facet is the global reach of cinema from various regions. While Hollywood films enjoy global viewership, other robust industries like Bollywood might not have the same global footprint. Why is there such a disparity, and how have these dynamics changed over time?
