# A: Relationships

## How does the relationship of people shape the movie industry?
The production of a movie involves a collaboration between a variety of roles for a relatively long period of time, and they all influence the success of the movie. The quality of the plot and the acting are of course an important factor, but there are details that are often more difficult to discern. When a team of directors, producers, writers, cinematographers, etc. collaborate, the result is more than just one movie. They build a relationship, good or bad, and it will influence their future projects and decisions. By building a network graph of the relationship of the most important people in the movie industry (using the CMU, IMDb, and DBpedia datasets), we can analyze it to get more insights about how these relationships have influenced the industry. Who are the most influential figures? Is there any pattern in the success of a movie and the relationship of people among the production team? Is there any pattern in the emergence of a new star or the disappearance of a popular figure?

## Globalization of movies
Explore the evolution of international film collaborations from their sparse existence at the dawn of the 20th century to the prolific global partnerships we witness today. By analyzing movies that have cross-border production teams or casts, is the democratization of these collaborations truly equitable? For instance, does the main cast predominantly hail from one nationality when a developed country collaborates with an emerging one? Do all nationalities get equal spotlight and access to awards? Are some nationalities stigmatized? Another intriguing facet is the global reach of cinema from various regions. While Hollywood films enjoy global viewership, other robust industries like Bollywood might not have the same global footprint. Why is there such a disparity, and how have these dynamics changed over time?


# B: Preferences

## Actor's Preference of Character and Corresponding Revenue
In a movie, a character's success isn't solely about the story; it also heavily depends on how the actor brings that character to life. This raises the question: what kinds of characters do actors really like to play? Do they stick to the same types of roles every time, or do they enjoy experimenting with different characters? We can analyze and categorize the various characters played by actors and actresses. Then, we can try to find out the preference of each actor/actress depend on gender and nationality.  Do the actors/actress in some countries have more preference towards some type of characters? Moreover, how do these choices affect the outcome (the movie box revenue)? Does an actor's preference for a certain character type always lead to greater success, or are there cases where a particular character type doesn't quite click with an actor's style?  Additionally, are there actors and actresses who do well in various character types and how rare it is?

## Is she really acting or she is just being herself?
Certain actors and actresses are known to have performed diverse roles and different characters, while some are criticized for repeating themselves. By analyzing the characters and persona that have been portrayed by an actor or an actress, the importance of their role, their age at the time of the movie, potentially their personal state at the time, and a measure of their popularity or success, we can answer to the question whether there is a pattern in the career paths of actors and actresses in terms of the types of roles that they perform.


# C: Events+Technologies

## Influence of global events on movie plots
To gauge the impact of global happenings on cinema, we'll delve into the influences of wars, technological innovations, economic downturns, and even subtle governmental nudges. Historical events like the Cold War didn't just shape global politics but also cinematic narratives. Was there a spike in war-centric movies during such times or narratives where American protagonists found themselves fighting against foreign threats, suggesting possible governmental influence or propaganda? Moreover, with the advent of groundbreaking technology like CGI, did the film industry lean more towards alien invasions or space odysseys? And in times of economic crises, did cinema try to uplift spirits by churning out more comedies, offering a respite from real-world struggles? We could explore patterns in movie genres, plots, and even the nationalities of lead actors. Did certain global events lead to a particular nationality being more represented, or possibly even typecast, in specific roles? Were certain genres more predominant in specific decades due to overarching global sentiments?

## Technological Advancements in film production
The collection of films which information we have been provided with extends from the earliest stages of cinematography (end of the 1880’s) to the end of the 2010’s. Between these two extremes, a large number of technological advancements have drastically changed film production : synchronous sound, colour, green screens, digital lenses, CGI or even the internet can be cited as such. We could thus look how the film industry responds to these technological advancements. Is there a slump or a rise in certain genres following the invention or democratization of some techniques ? When new methods are invented, do films that embrace this new type of cinematography receive different revenue and critical acclaim compared to traditional ones ? Thus, adding some data about critics, methods used in films etc. could greatly enhance the accuracy and relevance of the analysis. We could also look at if certain technological advancements modify the way films uses certain genres or themes using the plot summaries we have been provided with. In science fiction for instance, is there a shift towards space-related fictions after invention of green screens?
